# Structure of SH2 domain contact mapping data
This is a high level overview of the folders and data contained. Some folders have more extensive readme files about column information contained in files, etc. Please refer to those as well. 

## References
### Uniprot_Reference
Uniprot_Reference contains the reference files of all human Uniprot proteins with SH2 domains.
1. SH2_IPR000980_uniprot_reference.csv - a file detailing information about the proteins pulled from the Uniprot reference that have assigned IPR000980 domains, including sequence. 
2. The following fasta files are included
* SH2_IPR000980.fasta is a short header format used for compatibility
* SH2_IPR00980_long_header.fasta - has a longer header and the headers are mapped as keys in SH2_IPR00980_mapping.csv
3. alignment directory includes two alignments and stored parameters. We found the promals3d to be more accurate and we use this alignment: **SH2_IPR000980_promals3d.fasta**


### PDB_Reference
Generated from the PDB IDs fetched with the Uniprot reference, this folder contains the PDB information in the following form
1. SH2_IPR000980_PDB.csv - PDB information for all PDB IDs found in the reference
2. SH2_IPR000980_PDB_annotated.csv - We appended new columns to the above file, adding information about domains and the boundaries found and how it relates to the Uniprot Reference.
3. SH2_IPR000980_PDB_reference.csv - this is the filtered PDB annotated file, containing only structures that fully span SH2 domains.

### AlphaFold_Reference
This contains a csv file that contains the information (like PDB reference) of information about the sequence predicted, the domain boundaries, for all protein predictions spanning an SH2 domain.

## Features
All features inside this directory are mapped directly onto the numbering residue positions and relative to Uniprot_Reference files. Hence, you can open the **SH2_IPR000980_promals3d.fasta** in Jalview and import any of these features on to that. The annotation tracks are specifically generated for this alignment. Features end with .feature and annotation tracks end with .ann
1. PTMS_all: These are post-translational modification features (generated by CoDIAC)
2. superbinder_mutations: Hand extracted mutations
3. phospholipid_binding: Hand extracted phospholipid binding features
4. mutations: mutations pulled from various databases  (generated by CoDIAC)
5. ligand: ligand interface residues extracted  (generated by CoDIAC). Ligand contains Experimentally extracted (Experimental_Features) and Inferred features (Inferred_features). The SH2_IPR000980_Ligand.feature contains the final set of features combining both. 
6. interDomain: interaction interfaces extracted between domains (generated by CoDIAC). interDomain contains Experimentally extracted (Experimental_Features) and Inferred features (Inferred_features) and AlphaFold Features (AlphaFold). The SH2_IPR000980_interDomain.feature contains the final set of features combining all inferred and extracted.

## Reports
This folder contains .csv files that enumerate from a PTM or mutation centric viewpoint nearby features. 
